# CS-300-DSA_Analysis_and_Design


These projects focused on a fictional scenario regarding the academic advisors in the Computer Science department at ABCU. In this scenario, the advisors want to determine which data structure (vectors, hash tables, and trees) has the most optimum runtime for loading a list of courses, sorting these courses, and searching for a specific course. All data structures provide a way to organize, store, and perform operations on data. However, the way these structures work differs. For example, vectors are relatively easy to implement and possess the ability to add and/or remove objects from a list of objects which has an average runtime complexity of O(1). With that said, vectors are efficient for searching for specific values. Therefore, a vector may be used when dealing with functions focused on adding or removing objects from a list. Unfortunately, if the user wants to search for a specific object in the list, vectors are inefficient. Knowing the differences between each data structure has expanded my approach to designing software and developing programs. For example, this knowledge allowed me to determine that trees provided the most optimal runtime for searching, sorting, and adding objects. Unfortunately, unlike vectors, trees are relatively difficult to implement. This difficulty led to me encountering a major roadblock involving searching for an object. For previously unknown reasons, although the tree was filled and possessed a depth of at least three levels, my while loop always exited after traversing the first level. Upon exiting, unless the searched node was at the root, the node returned seemingly didn’t exist which raised an error. In retrospect, this error is likely caused because the bitKey used (to determine and compare each course) was a string instead of an integer which made comparisons difficult. Because these comparisons were performed incorrectly, the program would encounter these issues. Future iterations should address this fundamental issue. Once addressed, the program would become extraordinarily adaptable, which is another major advantage of data structures. After all, technically, the completed project doesn’t require the provided list of courses. The program could be utilized for almost any list and will produce similar results. Although minor changes will be required to increase readability and user-friendliness, the program is extremely adaptable. Therefore, understanding data structures has evolved the way I write programs by making them far more adaptable than they were before. In conclusion, these projects focused on a fictional scenario regarding the academic advisors in the Computer Science department at ABCU. In this scenario, the advisors want to determine which data structure (vectors, hash tables, and trees) has the most optimum runtime for loading a list of courses, sorting these courses, and searching for a specific course. Through their completion, my understanding of data structures has been improved which should both expand and evolve my ability to write programs.
